File Name: codebook.txt

This code book describes the data used in the Getting and Cleaning Data project. It also describes the processing required to create the resulting tidy data set.

For the UCI HAR Dataset, the following variables are set from run_analysis.R. See the README.md file for additional details.

Source data is retrieved from the following location:
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip.

Explanation of each file is provided below:

i. features.txt: Names of the 561 features.

ii. activity_labels.txt: Names and IDs for each of the 6 activities.

iii. X_train.txt: 7352 observations of the 561 features, for 21 of the 30 volunteers.

iv. subject_train.txt: A vector of 7352 integers, denoting the ID of the volunteer related to each of the observations in X_train.txt.

v. y_train.txt: A vector of 7352 integers, denoting the ID of the activity related to each of the observations in X_train.txt.

vi. X_test.txt: 2947 observations of the 561 features, for 9 of the 30 volunteers.

vii. subject_test.txt: A vector of 2947 integers, denoting the ID of the volunteer related to each of the observations in X_test.txt.

viii. y_test.txt: A vector of 2947 integers, denoting the ID of the activity related to each of the observations in X_test.txt.

More information about the files is available in README.md. More information about the features is available in features_info.txt.


The following acronyms can be replaced:

- Acc can be replaced with Accelerometer

- Gyro can be replaced with Gyroscope

- BodyBody can be replaced with Body

- Mag can be replaced with Magnitude

- Character f can be replaced with Frequency

- Character t can be replaced with Time


The following are the Processing steps used:

1. All of the relevant data files were read into data frames, appropriate column headers were added, and the training and test sets were combined into a single data set.

2. All feature columns were removed that did not contain the exact string "mean()" or "std()". 

3. A tidy data set was created containing the mean of each feature for each subject and each activity. The tidy data set was output to a text file named tidy_data.txt.